# nf-core/phyloplace: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [HMMER](#hmmer) - HMM model and alignments
- [EPA-NG](#epa-ng) - Output from phylogenetic placement
- [GAPPA](#gappa) - Output from GAPPA analyses of placement
- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### HMMER

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `hmmer/*.ref.hmm.gz`: HMM model built from reference alignment
- `hmmer/*.ref.hmmbuild.txt`: Log from HMM model build
- `hmmer/*.ref.unaligned.afa.gz`: Unaligned reference sequences in fasta format
- `hmmer/*.ref.hmmalign.sthlm.gz`: Reference sequences aligned to HMM model
- `hmmer/*.ref.hmmalign.masked.sthlm.gz`: Reference alignment masked to positions in model (`--rf-is-masked`) in Stockholm format
- `hmmer/*.ref.hmmalign.masked.afa.gz`: Reference alignment masked to positions in model (`--rf-is-masked`) in fasta format
- `hmmer/*.query.hmmalign.sthlm.gz`: Query sequences aligned to HMM model
- `hmmer/*.query.hmmalign.masked.sthlm.gz`: Query alignment masked to positions in model (`--rf-is-masked`) in Stockholm format
- `hmmer/*.query.hmmalign.masked.afa.gz`: Query alignment masked to positions in model (`--rf-is-masked`) in fasta format

</details>

### EPA-NG

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `epangpp/*.epa_result.jplace.gz`: EPA-NG placement output in `jplace` format
- `epangpp/*.epa_info.log`: EPA-NG placement log

</details>

### GAPPA

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `gappa/*.graft.placement.epa_result.newick`: Query sequences grafted on reference phylogeny
- `gappa/*.taxonomy.per_query.tsv`: Taxonomic classification of individual query sequences
- `gappa/*.taxonomy.profile.tsv`: Taxonomic classification profile
- `gappa/*.taxonomy.labelled_tree.newick`: Taxonomic classification labels on phylogeny
- `gappa/*.taxonomy.krona.profile`: Taxonomic classification as Krona profile
- `gappa/*.taxonomy.sativa.tsv`: Taxonomic classification as Sativa tsv
- `gappa/*.heattree.tree.svg`: SVG rendering of the tree with placement mass rendered as a heat map
- `gappa/*.heattree.tree.nexus`: NEXUS rendering of the tree with placement mass rendered as a heat map
- `gappa/*.heattree.tree.phyloxml`: phyloxml rendering of the tree with placement mass rendered as a heat map
- `gappa/*.heattree.tree.colours.txt`: Colours used in heat tree
- `gappa/*.heattree.tree.log`: Log from `gappa examine heattree` run

</details>

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
